Source: https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/RALafferty/conversations/messages/63

Date: Wed, 27 Aug 2003 11:08:26 -0400
From: Bryan Cholfin <cranked@...>
To: RALafferty@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: [RALafferty] Re: "Golden Gate"

On Wednesday, Aug 27, 2003, at 05:13 America/New_York,
chrisaschneider@... wrote:

    >
    > What *I* was struck by, when I read "Golden Gate" recently, was the 
    > stuff about adult men sitting on women's laps.  "Perhaps," thought I, 
    > "what with James Cagney in 'White Heat' and all, a recognizable bit of 
    > Irish-American male behavior?"

At the 1989 Worldcon in Boston, some friends and I threw a big party,
partly for the publication of Lafferty's novel SINDBAD. Ray came to the
party and during the course of the night (he stayed fairly late as I
recall) he sat on several women's laps. I've read similar reports from
others. I don't know what it means, really. Considering he was a
lifelong bachelor who claimed to be somewhat afraid of women, one could
make a number of speculations, but I don't have any basis for any
definite conclusion.

    > I was also struck by Lafferty -- or his characters -- preferring the
    > 1890s to the 1920s.  Perhaps "a generational thing"?  Perhaps a sign 
    > that each generation has its assigned point (preferably during the 
    > previous generation) where moral certainties were suddenly no longer 
    > in evidence? 

It is that partly (though even in that story the main character is
presented as being deluded, and Lafferty seems to have actually enjoyed
living through the 1920s as a kid). In "Maybe Jones and the City" the
characters seem to be in search of a place with an 1890s kind of
ambience. Though I think there was more to it than just one decade
being preferable to another. In his "Day after the World Ended" speech,
Ray said: "I am speaking literally about a real happening, the end of
the world in which we lived until fairly recent years. The destruction
or unstructuring of that world, which is still sometimes referred to as
'Western Civilization' or 'Modern civilization', happened suddenly,
some time in the half century between 1912 and 1962. That world, which
was 'the World' for a few centuries, is gone." He then goes on to state
that structured prose fiction is dead, and that "we are now in an
unstructured era of post-musical music, post-fictional fiction, and
post-experiential experience. We are, partly at least, in a
post-conscious world. Most people seem to prefer to live in this world
that has lost a dimension. I don't know whether the condition is
permanent or transitory." And indeed, there were a lot of big changes
in the early decades of the 20th century, in art, music, science
(relativity and quantum mechanics), psychology (Freudian theory), and
politics (the unraveling of the old imperial order of Europe). What Ray
says in his essay is that in our new structureless time we're free to
do whatever we want, but that most people prefer grubbing about in the
rubble to using their creativity to build new structures for a new
world.

--Bryan G. Cholfin
40.6773148 N 73.9811859 W

